- Scott Alexander, [Meditations on Moloch](https://slatestarcodex.com/2014/07/30/meditations-on-moloch/) (2014)
	- Like the rats, who gradually lose all values except sheer competition, so companies in an economic environment of sufficiently intense competition are forced to abandon all values except optimizing-for-profit or else be outcompeted by companies that optimized for profit better and so can sell the same service at a lower price. From a god’s-eye-view, we can contrive a friendly industry where every company pays its workers a living wage. From within the system, there’s no way to enact it.
	- E.g. the Two-Income Trap. It theorized that sufficiently intense competition for suburban houses in good school districts meant that people had to throw away lots of other values – time at home with their children, financial security – to optimize for house-buying-ability or else be consigned to the ghetto.
	- In some competition optimizing for X, the opportunity arises to throw some other value under the bus for improved X. Those who take it prosper. Those who don’t take it die out. Eventually, everyone’s relative status is about the same as before, but everyone’s absolute status is worse than before. The process continues until all other values that can be traded-off have been.
- TheZvi, [Does Big Business Hate Your Family?](https://thezvi.wordpress.com/2019/12/31/does-big-business-hate-your-family/) (2019)
	- In Meditations on Moloch, Scott points out that **perfect competition** destroys all value beyond the axis of competition. Which, for any compactly defined axis of competition we know about, destroys all value.
	- This is a default characteristic of all sufficiently strong optimizers. Recall that when we optimize for X but are indifferent to Y, we by default actively optimize against Y, for all Y that would make any claims to resources. **Perfect competition destroys all value by being a sufficiently powerful optimizer.**
	- We will define **super-perfect competition** as competition that mostly has most of the elements of perfect competition, but lacks free entry and free exit, which creates more production than there would be at equilibrium (and thus, also, a lower price). In particular we assume effective homogenization of products. The market coerces this production through some combination of trickery, force, mandates, exploitation of biases, false perceptions, cost of exit, rapid technological or regulatory change, predatory competition in pursuit of future market power, or other means.
	- Perfect competition destroys all the producer surplus. Super-perfect competition destroys more than all producer surplus. The saving grace of free ability to exit has been removed.
	- Producers in both cases also have no slack or freedom. They must follow exactly the ‘optimal’ short-term strategies. Anything else is sacrificed.
	- **Worlds given fully over to perfect or super-perfect competition, by default, lose all value to those within them.**
- [DUSTIN: I think, in the next 50 years, the digitization of everything will cause optimization pressure to steadily increase, resulting in an "unstoppable force meets immovable object" situation. Historically this results in societal collapse / war / "black swan" events.]